 A special place in the solar system is the Earth — the only planet on which
various forms of life develop over billions of years. There are several hypotheses about the origin of the Earth. Almost
 all of them boil down to the fact that the interstellar dust and gases were the starting material for the formation of
the planets of the solar system, including the Earth. However, there is still no clear answer to the questions: how did
the full set of chemical elements of the Periodic Table appear in the composition of the planets and what was the impetu
s for the beginning of gas and dust condensation into the protosolar nebula. Some scientists suggest that the emergence
of a variety of chemical elements is associated with an external factor — the explosion of a Supernova in the vicinity
 of the future Solar System. Apparently, the synthesis of chemical elements occurs as a result of nuclear reactions in t
he depths and gaseous envelope of the Supernova. A powerful explosion with its shock wave could stimulate the onset of c
ondensation of interstellar matter, from which the Sun and a protoplanetary disk formed, which later disintegrated into
separate planets of the inner and outer groups with an asteroid belt between them. This initial stage of the formation o
f the Solar System is called catastrophic, since the explosion of a Supernova is a natural disaster. On an astronomical
time scale, such explosions are not a rare occurrence — they occur on average in a few billion years. It is assumed th
at the formation of planets from the protoplasmic disc was preceded by an intermediate phase of the formation of solid a
nd rather large, up to several hundred kilometers in diameter, bodies, called plantizims; their subsequent accumulation
and collision caused the accretion (buildup) of the planet, which was accompanied by a change in the gravitational force
s. The radioactive method has established that the age of the most ancient rocks found in the earth’s crust is about 4
 billion years. It took billions of years to form our planet — the Earth. The globe, flattened at the poles, orbiting
its own axis, moves at an average speed of about 30 km / s in space along an elliptical trajectory around the sun. Our E
arth is amazing and beautiful. Many people represented and represented her. It looks especially beautiful from space, wh
ere our compatriot, cosmonaut Yu.A. Gagarin.